.\"	$OpenBSD$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Iain R. Leamonth <irl@fsfe.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     From:	@(#)lo.4	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/5/93
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 01 2019 $
.Dt KISS 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kiss
.Nd KISS line discipline
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Cd "pseudo-device kiss"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
line discipline can be attached to serial lines to communicate with a TNC,
including the following:
.Bl -bullet
.It
AEA PK-88
.It
Dire Wolf (using a
.Xr pty 4 )
.It
Kenwood TM-D700E
.El
.Pp
The TNC must already be in KISS mode before the line discipline is activated.
Refer to the documentation for your TNC to find how to do this.
It may be possible to perform automatic initialisation using a
.Xr chat 8
script.
When this line discipline is first attached, it will in turn attach to the first
available
.Xr ekiss 4
network interface, or any other interface that has registered with the line
discipline.
.Pp
For general use, once the interface has been created and configured, the line
discipline can be attached using
.Xr ldattach 8 .
For example, assuming the TNC is connected to
.Pa /dev/cua00
at 1200 baud:
.Bd -literal
$ ldattach -s 1200 kiss cua00
.Ed
.Pp
The line discipline is also enabled by the following sequence:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <sys/ioctl.h>
int ldisc = KISSDISC, fd; ...
ioctl(fd, TIOCSETD, &ldisc);
.Ed
.Pp
Input and output on the serial line is then intercepted and handled by the
kernel, and will not be available via the
.Xr read 2
and
.Xr write 2
system calls.
.Sh MULTI-DROP KISS
.Pp
The line discipline is aware of multi-drop in as far as incoming data on all
ports will be accepted and will not trigger error conditions. The
additional commands, acknowledge or polled mode, are not implemented. All data
will be sent on port 0.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tty 4 ,
.Xr ldattach 8
.Sh REFERENCES
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Rs
.%A Mike Chepponis, K3MC
.%A Phil Karn, KA9Q
.%D 1987
.%T The KISS TNC: A simple Host-to-TNC communications protocol
.%B ARRL 6th Computer Networking Conference
.%C Redondo Beach, CA, United States.
.Re
.It
.Rs
.%A Karl Medcalf, WK5M
.%D 1991
.%T Multi-Drop KISS operation
.%B ARRL 10th Computer Networking Conference
.%C San Jose, CA, United States.
.Re
.El
